Hello, everybody.
Welcome.
I think this is on.
Yeah, we're good?
The mic?
Okay.
Welcome to Coop, Open Source Trust and Safety Infrastructure for
All.
Real quick, if you happen to have, I guess I don't
know how you're going to scan this on a laptop.
Yeah, not the easiest setup.
I've also been posting about this all day, but to get
ready for this talk, we've actually created a temporarily hosted Co
op instance.
Important notice that you hear us talk a lot.
Roost does not host our tools.
We do not want your data.
You cannot send your data to us.
But for today, we have some sample data from posts from all
the folks in this room ingested via tap.
So if you do want to follow along, we have this interactive
Coop demo.
You can go in, you can create policies, you can review tasks.
It's not hooked up to anything.
They will have no actions and no repercussions, but you can
see how the interface works.
Be a nice little hands on for you.
So yeah, also want to give a quick content warning.
We're going to be talking abstractly about some of the
sorts of harms that we encounter in trust and safety.
We're not going to like go into detail or show examples,
but we will be talking about things like child abuse, violent content,
self-harm, unwanted content.
Also, we will be doing, I guess we won't be doing
a live demo.
You gave the content warning for that live demo, but that live
demo is ingesting live data from at proto.
So it was, but unless some of you have been freaks,
the content should be fine because it's only looking at content
posted by accounts that are actively posting on the atmosphere comp hashtag.
All right.
And with that, who are we?
So a lot of you probably know us, we're Roost.
Roost stands for robust, open online safety tools.
And what that actually means in practice is we're a nonprofit
in service of the public good.
We believe that safety tools are critical digital infrastructure.
We develop, distribute, maintain open source software for trust and safety.
And we make existing safety technology integrated and interoperable.
Important thing.
We do not, or we are not training a classifier in
CSAM.
We're not providing a hosted trust and safety platform.
We're not hosting this for you.
It's open, open source platform.
You can host yourself and we're not doing your moderation for
you.
We're not a moderation service just to get that out of
the way.
And who are we specifically?
I'm Cassidy.
I'm the community manager at Roost.
My name is Julia.
I'm the head of product at Roost.
Quick background.
I've been in trust and safety for 10 years.
Cassidy comes from a long esteemed time and career in
the open source world.
So together we're kind of Voltroning, Frankensteining
a team that both deeply understands the values and practices of open
source software and trust and safety.
You may recognize some of my work from the user reporting flow
and internal systems at Snapchat and Grindr and Google spam and
abuse.
I'm sorry if you got a spam email.
That is my former team.
So Juliette is going to give us a quick trust and
safety crash course in case I guess, yeah do we want to
do a...
So by show of hands, raise your hand if you are building
something on AppProto.
Great.
Now raise your hand if you have a trust and safety plan
for what you're building on AppProto.
Okay.
Not the worst.
So let's start with basics.
Another show of hands.
Who has a rough idea of what trust and safety is?
Nice.
Okay.
That's awesome.
All right.
Well, we're probably going to be a little bit repetitive.
Cassidy, will you kick us off please?
Sure.
So a trust and safety crash course I always say it's
all the bad stuff that can happen on the internet.
But with a caveat that online and offline are no longer completely
separate worlds.
The harms you experience online translate into offline harms.
With things like ride sharing, with things like rentals, anything that
happens online can also mean something that happens in the physical, tangible
world.
But trust and safety really refers to teams, technologies, and just the
general field of studying online harms, responding to them as well.
Fun fact, this term actually was originated by eBay a number of
years ago.
If you look at the Wikipedia page on trust and safety, I
wrote it.
So it has a nice little history about how this field really
came to be and where it's going today.
It can include things, like I said earlier, user abuse reporting, any
kind of flagging, any kind of customer support flow, saying something
happened to me on this platform or in this experience that I
do not like.
It can also include things around online child safety and abuse and
exploitation, things around CSAM.
A lot of people on the internet used to say CP.
We as an industry are moving away from that because pornography involves
consent sensing adults.
Children cannot consent.
So we refer to it as CSAM, child sexual abuse materials.
It also includes things like radicalization.
This can be things around glorifying mass casualty events, things
school shootings, things mass shootings, things around kind of like really harmful
narratives that can lead to potential mass casualty events.
Things around harassment, things around non-consensual intimate imagery.
Like I mentioned, anything bad that can happen on the internet.
And a lot of the former speakers throughout the atmosphere conference have
said, it also includes things around information influence campaigns.
And some of the labelers that Julia talked about earlier also
cover topics around things like zoophilia amongst certain communities that
are very prominent and active on atmosphere.
Zoophilia is still not allowed.
So with that fun slide, we're going to move into more
formally what trust and safety really means.
And I do like the call out here of trust and safety
is not just about punishing or negative effects.
It is also about encouraging pro-social behavior.
So there's a lot of different aspects.
And I want to give a shout out to both Dr.
K and Julie, who talked about kind of like all kind of
trust and safety work, moderation work, labeling work is inherently political.
The values will change based on the demographics of those teams.
Ideally, you have a team with very mixed demographics and backgrounds.
What we've seen in a lot of companies, a lot of
teams, is those teams becoming very, very white and very, very former
cops.
That's going to influence how trust and safety is done on
those platforms.
But it should not be about policing.
It should not be about what comes down.
It should also be about what is going up.
What are you putting in front of people to encourage that pro-
social behavior?
And now into the academic stuff.
While we were first incubating Roost, we did so doing
research at Columbia University's Institute of Global Politics.
We found that in academic studies, there was pretty much no mention
of the tools that platforms actually use to do this kind of
trust and safety work.
A lot of stuff about the sociology, the policy, maybe the operations,
and of course, the trauma and wellness that it takes on the
working class people that do this work.
But nothing on the technology.
So we wrote a paper.
We talked to over 50 different trust and safety, anti-abuse,
and risk teams across startups, non-profit organizations, major tech companies.
And these people were very open.
And what we found is that everyone's tools look the same.
Doesn't matter if you're a marketplace.
Doesn't matter if you're a cruising app.
It doesn't matter if you're a traditional social media app.
All of your tools are the same.
So we came up with a framework called dire because the situation
is dire.
D, detection.
This could be a user report.
It could be a classifier.
It could be hash matching.
How do you know that something's up?
Once you find something is up, how do you investigate it?
How do you know is this the only thing that is up?
Are there other things that are going on with this particular signal?
So let's say maybe there's a signal sharing group.
Maybe it's literally on signal.
And someone says this IP address is associated with a Russian propaganda
campaign.
You want to know is this happening on my project?
Is this happening on my platform?
That's where investigation takes place.
It's supposed to be more open-ended.
You need to understand what is the scale and scope of some
of the things that are happening.
Once you find all that stuff, you have to review it.
Special shout out to Acorn, the moderation tool built and designed
by Black Sky, Ozone, by the Blue Sky team.
We're going to talk about Coop, our review tool.
It's designed for scaled, flexible review.
How do you have the right context to take into consideration whether
something's actually violating or not?
Finally, enforcement.
What are the actions available?
Maybe an action is taking content down.
Maybe it's sending them a warning.
Maybe it's sending them a kind of like, what is it
called?
A de-radicalizing kind of like resource of here's
some stuff to read because you're searching something that might mean
something else.
And this also includes reporting to different authorities.
Authorities here does not always mean police or law enforcement.
It can mean organizations like NECMEC, the National Center
for Missing and Exploited Children.
In the US, there are a subset of laws that say, "If
you become aware of things like CSAM, you are legally required
to report it to organizations like NECMEC." And if
that tiny QR code is too hard to scan, there's a
big QR code for the paper.
If you want to read our paper, it is right here.
You can also just look for the Dyer framework and you
should find it.
Kind of talked about this a bit.
So yeah, we found that platforms are constantly reinventing these tools.
And a lot of times they're, you know, it's internal
tools at different organizations.
So that's part of the part of the thing we're
trying to solve.
I have personally built or worked on review tools at three different
places.
They all look and act the same and they all have the
same features.
It's a waste of engineering time.
It's a waste of resources.
And we all have the same feature requests and bugs.
This is helpful as well.
These are some of the terms that we've, you've probably
been hearing us say, and you may hear us continue to say.
Yeah.
I kind of covered this one already as well.
And...
Oh, yes.
So a phrase that we often say is, "Roost is tools,
not rules." Or better, tools for your rules, because we're not
in charge of creating policy.
We got this, we got a lot of people asking us like, "
Can you write our policies for us?" It's like, "No, we
cannot." We are not only, we are, a lot of us have
worked in policy roles, but every single community is different.
We're probably not members of your specific community.
So we don't know what are the norms and the, what
's acceptable behavior within your own community.
Our, and some of this can really change based on jurisdiction.
The example we have here is that in the US, there's
no mandatory requirement to go voluntarily look for CSAM.
But if you do find it, you do have to report it
to NECMEC and then preserve data for up to
a year.
Versus if you're in the UK, platforms just have to
remove and report it immediately.
And it's enforced by regulator that has teeth in that they
will find you.
So the big difference there is that data retention.
I've talked to, you know, regulators or organizations of the UK
who are like, "Hey, like, isn't that illegal if you're
holding on to that data for more than a year?" I'm
like, "Actually, we legally have to.
We abstractly, not we as Roost." So once again, you
know, I think what we're trying to do with Roost
is build a community for people to share policy ideas with each
other, and then use those policies in our tools.
Yeah.
And here's some resources as well.
Julia, I know you've collected these, so I'll let you
continue.
Yeah.
So somewhere on my symbol, I have made a collection of all
the various trust and safety resources I often yap about.
They include many of these.
So these are my go-to resources.
If you're looking to learn more about the trust and safety
field, just generally understand it.
But then also, if you want to get really into the details
of the operations, of the tooling, of the different types of technologies
that are often used.
Trust and Safety Professional Association is what it is.
It's a professional association for those who do trust and safety
work full-time.
And that includes community mods.
So they have put together this amazing curriculum written by practitioners.
I contributed to the tooling part.
There's a lot of stuff in there about how to, for
example, if like a product design runbook, where if you have
something like live streaming, where are the things that you need to
put in friction or what are the different types of safety tools
you need to have in place before you launch something.
There's guides like that for maturity models of teams of different
sizes as well as different products that you're building.
They also have a library of different types of resources, academic papers,
all dealing with trust and safety.
And then finally, a lot of professors are now teaching trust and
safety in universities.
They have open sourced their materials through this teaching consortium.
So if you want to teach a class on trust and safety
or virtually go through a class taught by experts in trust and
safety, you can also do that by visiting this GitHub page.
We'll share all the links in this presentation on our blue
sky immediately following this as well because I know there's a
lot of links.
All right, now we're going to talk, that was trust and
safety crash course.
We're going to talk about Roost specifically and our non-
profit and open source approach.
The status quo that we found is really that trust and safety,
like the larger industry, is kind of broken.
As we've said, smaller platforms and newer protocols, a lot of
indie small apps being built on AppProto especially, you might
not know that you need these tools or they might be una
ffordable or inaccessible, like the traditional industry tools that
are standard.
And even if you can get access to them, a lot of
times those application processes are lengthy and complicated and ask a lot
of questions that an app of your scale doesn't really have
an answer to.
And platforms are reinventing these basic functionalities then instead of
they can either use this third-party vendor or they can build
it themselves.
And that's a waste of efforts.
It also takes away, it means that your app can't, or
your app and your team can't focus on the harms that
are specific to your community if you're focusing all of your
time on building the same thing over and over again.
We're also seeing that generative AI and LLMs
are accelerating the production of and the spread of harms.
So there's more and more things that are happening that need
to be addressed.
And we've also found that openness is kind of taboo
in the larger trust and safety community.
It's been really cool seeing so many trust and safety related
talks here because that has been kind of pushing back against that
idea.
But still within the larger industry people think that if you talk
about it then it means that bad actors will figure out ways
to get around your stuff.
You know it's very security through obscurity which as we
know from the security world is not really a valid approach.
And so what we believe is that the missing piece is actual
tools.
Things that developers can take and use and build, build on and
plug into their own platforms.
And importantly more importantly we believe that these tools must be open
source so that they're accessible, they're modifiable, auditable
and part of this trust and safety public commons that we
're building.
And as a result Roost is very very open source.
Everything from not just like technically on a licensing level but also
the development model and community model that we're building is open
source.
So here's a number of open source projects that we and
communities that we sort of develop.
Hasher matcher action is actually from meta but we run
the community in office hours.
So every couple weeks we get people together who are using H
MA for hash matching and we talk about things we you know
share information and knowledge and help develop it and make it better.
The Roost model community is this community that we've built
where people who are using open weight models can come together and
learn how to use them better in a trust and safety context.
They can learn about new models or or different policies and how
to how to plug in policies to open weight models which is
really powerful.
Roost itself, our roadmap is up on GitHub.
Our community documentation is all up on GitHub.
It's all open source.
It's in Markdown.
You can go click a button and edit it and open a
pull request against any of it as well.
We really want to embody this open source idea and our governance
documents as well.
And then there's two actual code projects.
We're talking about tools.
There's Osprey which is an automated rules engine which
originated from Discord and we helped them open source it and now
is actually being used by Blue Sky and Matrix and a number
of other platforms.
And Coop which we're going to talk a little bit
more about today which is the review console that we acquired and
open sourced and have been building upon and simplifying to
make it easier to self-host as well.
All of that stuff can be found on our GitHub, gith
ub.
com/roostorg.
And now we're going to talk about Coop.
Some of you may have known all this already and you're
saying finally we're actually going to see the project.
So Coop, this is the review tool.
What we did as Roost and again we're a non-
profit.
We wanted to bootstrap some of our software projects so
we acquired the IP from a startup that was selling trust and
safety tools as a service and we bought it.
And then we worked over the past six to eight months to
refactor that code to make it open sourceable.
We're not done.
There's still a lot of really messy legacy tech that that
's in this code base but that's the fun part of
working in the open.
We wanted the v0 out there to be like hey like
what's we know we need to prioritize certain migrations, database
cleanup, simplifications overall.
What else is needed from the community?
So again we want your opinions.
So Coop, it is built for manual review.
It also has like an auto bot directly built in.
This is self-hosted on your own infrastructure.
It comes with reviewer wellness features such as blurring, gr
ayscale, and auto muting of videos.
I'm going to go into a more comprehensive demo as well.
And like I said there's automation rules built in.
There's two types of rules within Coop.
One is the proactive kind of auto moderation.
Like you know something is bad or you know how to action
it.
Your team doesn't need to keep doing it.
You can set that up as a rule.
The second rule, the second type of rule is the routing rule.
So as things are coming in, let's say you're ing
esting a million reports to your label of service or to your
moderation service, you need to sort them.
Because from a wellness perspective, if you put all those reports and
tasks into a certain queue, into a single queue, you don't
know what's coming up next.
And context switching between something like harassment or hate to something like
NSFW, cartoons, that's a lot for your brain to
do.
That's going to impact you a lot more.
So assigning it to specific queues, and you can also do
that based on language.
If you're providing services for a global set of user base,
you want to have someone who's fluent in that language, who
has that cultural context, to then go in and review.
Some of the main features.
Coop is the very first free, open source, end-to-end
child safety tool, which means it provides hash matching for known CS
AM.
You still have to go get your own credentials from NEC
MEC, but once you have that, you can just plug it
in and start matching against databases of known CSAM that have
already been validated and verified by experts like NECMEC.
We also integrated it with Google's content safety API.
This is not free like open source.
It's free like free beer.
It's a free API.
You, again, need to get your own credentials from Google.
This is a novel CSAM detector.
This classifier can find CSAM that has not yet been
hashed, which is an increasing area of harm in the child
safety landscape today.
And we have it built in to support NECMEC
reporting.
We've integrated it with NECMEC's CyberT
ip reporting API as well as their hash sharing API, so that
way as you find CSAM, you can report it to the
authorities with the right amount of detail that makes it actually actionable.
It's scalable for your org.
Like I mentioned earlier, you can have multiple queues for different
types of workflows, different types of categories.
It's also a multi-tenant code base, because, again, it
was originally a SaaS startup.
So if you have maybe like a, so let's say like
you want to have multiple completely separate instances of coop with totally
separate people working in those workflows, you can also set it up
like that.
And I talked a little bit about the routing rules and proactive
rules.
There's also a unique kind of like architecture that we built
in.
We plugified everything, so that way any kind of signal, model,
detection service that you're using, you can actually integrate it directly
into coop.
Coop comes with three pre-built API integrations.
Google's content safety API, like I mentioned already.
OpenAI's moderation API, just because realistically we know a lot
of people depend on it.
It is free.
You have to get your API token from OpenAI.
And it supports image and text.
And third one is Zentropy.
You may have heard some folks at Atmosphere talking about
Zentropy.
They have open weight models, but for coop, we integrated with the
API, which again, is backed by that open weight model for text
classification.
This is essentially, you can design your own text classifier.
You write a policy prompt in Zentropy, it creates a model
for you.
It is completely tunable, completely customizable, and it's a small
model that runs really well with latency.
So if you need something that's happening near real time, Zent
ropy might be a good option for you.
So, for the different types of people that are building on App
Proto, here's where you might use coop.
As a PDS hoster, your users, your liability.
You might want to review reports against your community standards.
You might want to, oh yeah.
Oh wow.
Without the helper text, the elf thing, the elf thing makes much
less sense.
So there's supposed to be a line here that says, "In
a world where sexual "alphs are illegal and not allowed
on online platforms, these are your obligations." You might want to detect
known images of elf from third-party databases of elf hashes
and report them to the right authorities.
As a labeler, you might want to use coop as a
review interface instead of ozone, or in addition to ozone, you can
use automation or human review for reports on alphs submitted
by your users.
You can mix automated and human decisions.
And finally, as an app creator, you're like, I just don
't want any of, I don't want to deal with any
of this.
You can ship safety without a full trust and safety team.
We know many of you are single person teams, two person teams,
but you also want to do right by your users.
So you could use coop to set up some simple automation.
If you want to do some manual review, you could do labeling
of any kind.
It doesn't even have to be for trust and safety.
We were going to do a whole alpha analogy and we decided
last minute not to, and then we didn't take it out
of everywhere.
So, a little peek behind the scenes there.
We're going to switch it, yeah.
Okay.
Hope we didn't totally just mess up
the live stream, you know.
It's on the screen here.
All right.
So, this is what coop looks like.
For the data, I have it collecting content from the dudes of
people in this room.
So, when you first go into coop, you see some key metrics.
You get a breakdown of all the actions I've got to
set to the last seven days.
What percent were automated?
What percent were manual?
What were the top policy violations?
How many actions were taken?
How many things still need to be reviewed?
And you got some fun graphs because everyone loves a visual.
I'm going to go into the manual review first.
So, here you can see I've got a few queues
set up.
I can create a new queue at any given time.
And if you're doing kind of like phased review or
maybe the first round reviews or maybe certain types of queues,
you don't want certain actions to be taken.
Maybe they're very sensitive actions.
You can actually hide them from the queue.
And we use role-based access controls.
So, whoever should have access to a queue has access to it.
Anyone who does not have that role will not be given access.
A lot of trust and safety and moderation work involves very sensitive
user data.
So, this is a great way of kind of partitioning things
where they need to be partitioned.
So, I'm going to go into both the atmosphere posts and
the default queue.
I posted this, but there's really no better way to realize
what a prolific poster fane is than by running something
like this and realizing all 1,183 posts essentially come from
their account.
So, this is a post.
This is essentially completely customizable.
Whatever information you want to show, you can.
I've just got it populated with the post that fane
has written as long as well as their profile photo there did.
If I go down, I can see information about their account.
This is their header image.
You can see it's got that auto blur there.
When I mouse over it, it unblurs.
They are active.
This is their description.
You can go down and see what other actions have been taken
on this account, maybe for other posts, and I can actually preview
those separate jobs directly in the UI.
Finally, we're cleaning up this UI.
It looks a little messy right now, but you can see additional
items to give you more context to see is this account dedicated
to posting something that maybe needs a label or is it just
like out of context and it's like one post and in
the middle of the replies or in the middle of conversations, there
's other things going on.
So, I can apply a random label.
One thing to note is like as you're doing this work,
I believe Acorn does this too, you can actually check the
policy to see what is a goose label mean.
I'm going to say, oh, it contains profanity or
excessive exclamation points.
This is a demo policy.
There's no exclamation points here, so I'm actually going
to just ignore this task.
Oh, yep, sounds good.
So, you can skip tasks as well really quickly.
You can also download all of the tasks that your team has
skipped.
This is a really helpful way to figure out where are policies
that are unclear.
Where are people getting confused?
Also good for generating transparency reports for Digital Services Act compliance.
Under automated enforcement, I've got a few matching banks set up.
I've got hash banks with cans of spam, we know it
's spam, as well as photos from atmosphere, mostly taken from the
dinners I've been hosting.
From text banks, let's say you've got a bunch of
posts related to the atmosphere, you don't want to keep typing
them every time you create a rule.
So, I've got them in the text bank.
And in the rules here, you can actually see some of them
have fired.
For labeling atmosphere content, I'm saying if there's any text
in any item from the app proto post that matches anything in
that text bank, send a human review using the policy, just do
things.
There's other rules in here too, where I created some synthetic
posts matching cans of spam.
And you can actually see here how many things were actioned
by this rule.
What percentage were it?
And it'll actually give you that example feed of what's
been triggering by this rule.
You can put your policies in here.
This is a really nice way to just make sure everything is
in one spot.
So, for example, sexually explicit, I put five subcategories.
You can keep branching this out and make a very, very
comprehensive tree of nuanced policies for your team to use.
Let's go here.
So, for routing rules, like I said, this is really looking at
kind of like the incoming stuff and routing it to the right
place.
For this one, I'm actually using something from our signal library.
I've got hooked up the Zentropy with a sexual content
labeler, and I set a threshold of higher than 0.
2.
Nothing has triggered, thankfully.
Thank you all.
Thank you, everybody.
And it looks like someone added a rule.
Like I said, this is a public interactive demo.
Someone has put in a rule for goose art.
So, if there's any text that matches goose art, it will
send it to the queue atmosphere posts.
So, let's see what's in atmosphere posts.
This is a picture from a dinner where I dragged 30 people
to Richmond.
And this is a synthetic post that I've created.
You can see here that kind of, you know, wellness feature kicking
in.
Because this is a hash match, this actually tells you what hash
bank it came from.
I've already created an issue saying it's not super clear
this task originally was created as a hash match.
So, we're going to make that UI a little bit clearer.
And just to demonstrate this, I'm going to show you what
that looks like to escalate something to NECMEC.
This is where the content safety warning comes in because a lot
of the labels that NECMEC uses can be a
little bit graphic.
The UI for submitting something to NECMEC looks completely
different because it's aggregating everything Coop knows about a
given user to create a more comprehensive report.
NECMEC is not going to be able to do
much if you just submit one report for one content, especially if
you're submitting 10 reports on the same user.
It's better aggregated altogether.
So, the NECMEC reporting, these fields come from N
ECMEC CyberTip API.
These are the fields that their team uses to triage incoming
reports to their team.
The categories come from the Tech Coalition's Industry Classification.
It essentially describes the age range of the victim as well as
the type of abuse that is happening to the victim.
It tells you what kind of image matched where it came from
as well as more information.
You can categorize it and then send this report.
It tells you what this report will look like.
And as long as you have your credentials for NECM
EC put in there, that report will go through.
Okay, I know we're at time slash overtime.
Like I said, pre-built integrations, content safety API, OpenAI,
Zentropy.
I've got two labelers in here.
One of the things that we're trying to do with Ro
ost is for everyone who's trying to integrate a model with
Coop, we are pushing them to add model cards because everyone
deserves to know what is going on inside of that model.
How is this algorithm developed?
How is this model trained?
What was it trained on?
What are the biases?
So we've got three open issues.
We work directly with those model creators as part of the Ro
ost model community to get those model cards filled out.
So it's not in there yet, but it's coming very
soon.
I know we're at time, so please take a chance to
play around with our demo.
I'm going to keep it running all day and find me
or Cassidy if you have any questions about Roost or
Coop.
Thank you.